Vs（的）N The use of state verbs (adjectives) to modify a noun, often requiring the particle "的" to link the description to the object.
V了¹ An aspect marker indicating the completion or realization of an action, typically placed immediately after the verb.
和¹ A conjunction used to link two or more nouns or noun phrases together as a list or a compound subject/object.
没（有）¹ The negation used specifically for the verb "to have" or to indicate that an action did not happen in the past.
会¹ An auxiliary verb used to express a future possibility or the likelihood that something will happen.
V着¹ An aspect marker indicating a continuous state or the manner in which an action is performed.
序数 The use of the prefix "第" before a number and measure word to indicate rank, order, or sequence.
如果 A conjunction used at the beginning of a clause to introduce a hypothetical condition (if).
可以¹ An auxiliary verb used to express permission or the objective possibility of an action being allowed.
要² An auxiliary verb used to express an obligation, a piece of advice, or a strong necessity to do something.
要³ An auxiliary verb expressing a desire, intention, or a future plan to perform an action.
时量补语 A duration complement placed after the verb to indicate the length of time an action has continued.
但是 A conjunction used to introduce a clause that contrasts with or contradicts the preceding statement.
能¹ An auxiliary verb used to express physical capability or the capacity of an object to hold/contain something.
V过¹ An aspect marker indicating an experiential past, showing that an action has been performed at least once in the past.
就¹ An adverb used to indicate that an action happens immediately after another, or occurs sooner than expected.
“的”后接成分省略 The omission of a noun after the particle "的" when the identity of the noun is already clear from context.
会² An auxiliary verb used to indicate an acquired skill or a learned ability.
能² An auxiliary verb used to indicate capability based on objective circumstances or physical health.
要¹ Used as a main verb to indicate that an event is imminent or about to happen shortly.
宾+被+V A basic passive voice structure (Bei-construction) where the object of an action becomes the subject of the sentence.
V+Vs A resultative compound where a state verb follows an action verb to describe the outcome of that action.
跟² A preposition used to introduce the person to whom a statement is directed or with whom information is shared.
想 An auxiliary verb expressing a desire, wish, or intent to do something, often softer than "要".
和² A preposition used to indicate the person with whom an activity is shared or performed together.
从¹ A preposition used to indicate the starting point or origin of a movement or journey.
用 A preposition used to indicate the tool, instrument, or method used to perform an action.
在²/正在V Aspect markers used to indicate that an action is currently in progress at a specific moment.
呢¹ A sentence-final particle used for elliptical questions to ask "how about...?" regarding a previously mentioned subject.
（虽然），可是 A common sentence pattern used to express a concession or contrast between two related clauses.
N+们 A suffix added to personal pronouns or nouns referring to people to indicate plurality.
开始V A verbal structure used to indicate the commencement of a specific activity or state.
怎么 An interrogative pronoun used to ask about the manner, method, or way in which an action is performed.
可以² An auxiliary verb used to express ability or a "can do" state, often related to comprehension or situational possibility.
为什么 An interrogative phrase used to ask for the reason, cause, or purpose of an action or state.
给 A verb or preposition used to indicate the recipient of an action or an object being transferred.
V见 A resultative complement used after verbs of perception (like see/hear) to indicate that the perception was successful.
V了² A sentence-final particle used to indicate a "change of state" or the emergence of a new situation.
（请）不要 A polite or direct command used to forbid or discourage an action.
数字+几 A construction used to express an approximate number, typically meaning "ten-some" or "more than ten."
请 A polite verb used at the beginning of a sentence to make a request or give a polite command.
V得+补语 A structural particle "得" used to link a verb to a complement of degree or description.
帮 A verb or preposition used to indicate that an action is being performed on behalf of or for the benefit of someone else.
以前 A time word used to refer to the past or to indicate that an action occurs prior to another event.
V出¹ A directional complement indicating movement from the inside to the outside.
多/少 Adverbs used before a verb to suggest doing an action more or less, often in the context of advice.
也 An adverb used to indicate similarity or addition, meaning "also" or "too," always placed before the verb.
在³ A preposition used to indicate a specific point in time when an event occurs.
以前/以后 Time markers used to indicate "before" or "after" a specific event or a certain duration of time.
怎么样 An interrogative phrase used to ask about the quality, condition, or state of something or someone.
几/多少¹ Interrogative words used to ask about quantities; "几" is for small numbers, "多少" is for any quantity or price.
怎么办 A fixed interrogative expression used to ask for a solution or what should be done in a difficult situation.
跟¹ A preposition used to indicate accompaniment, meaning "with" or "along with" someone else.
请问 A polite formulaic expression used to preface a question to a stranger or in a formal setting.
好吗 A tag question added to the end of a proposal or request to seek the listener's agreement or consent.
怎么了 An interrogative phrase used to ask "what happened" or "what is wrong" with someone or something.
V到²/在 Complements used to indicate the final location or destination reached as a result of an action.
从……到……¹ A structure used to define a range of time from a specific start point to an end point.
从……到……² A structure used to define the spatial distance or path between two geographical locations.
都¹ An adverb meaning "all" or "both," used to group the subject and indicate that the verb applies to every member.
V来/去¹ Simple directional complements used after a verb to show movement towards (来) or away from (去) the speaker.
因为……所以…… A fundamental conjunction structure used to express cause and effect within a sentence.
有的……有的…… A structure used to categorize different groups within a whole, meaning "some... others..."
到……（去/来）+VP A serial verb construction indicating going to a place for the purpose of performing a specific action.
太Vs了 A pattern used to express an excessive degree of a state or quality, often with a subjective or emotional tone.
……还是…… A conjunction used in questions to provide alternative choices, meaning "or."
又……又…… A structure used to indicate that two qualities or states exist simultaneously in one person or thing.
有（一）点Vs An adverbial phrase used before an adjective to express a small degree, often regarding an unpleasant or undesirable state.
（在） PW 的 N A locative structure where a location phrase acts as a modifier to specify which noun is being discussed.
从² A preposition used to indicate the starting point of a process or the time when a new state begins.
V起来¹ A directional complement used to indicate upward movement from a lower position.
Vs一点 A structure used after an adjective to suggest a slightly higher degree or to make a request more polite.
数词+多（量词） The use of "多" after a number and measure word to indicate an approximate amount that exceeds the stated number.
V到¹ A resultative complement used to indicate that an action has reached a specific point in time or a certain extent.
又¹ An adverb used to indicate that an action has repeated in the past or happens again contrary to expectation.
又² An adverb used to list multiple actions or items that have occurred, emphasizing a sequence or accumulation.
V过来¹/过去 Directional complements indicating movement toward (过来) or away from (过去) a specific point of reference.
V下来/下去¹ Directional complements indicating movement from a higher position to a lower one.
A比B …… The basic comparative structure used to state that "A" has more of a certain quality than "B."
A跟B一样…… A comparative structure used to indicate that two things possess a quality to the same degree.
一……就…… A structure used to indicate that the second action follows immediately after the first action.
（是）……的 A construction used to emphasize a specific detail (time, place, or manner) of a past event that is already known.
好/难+V Prefixes added to verbs to describe an action as being "easy/pleasant" or "difficult/unpleasant" to perform.
了……就…… A structure used to show that once the first action is completed, the second action will occur.
从……往…… A directional structure indicating the path taken from an origin toward a specific direction.
A离B…… A structure used to describe the spatial or temporal distance between two points.
VP 的 N A complex noun phrase where a verb phrase acts as an adjective to modify a noun.
多+Vs？ A question structure used to ask about the degree or extent of a quality (e.g., how tall, how old).
V进/出/上/回/过/起 + 来/去 Compound directional complements that describe complex movements relative to the speaker.
零代词 The grammatical phenomenon where the subject or object is omitted because it is understood from the context.
概数 Various ways to express approximate numbers, such as using "几" or neighboring numbers.
话题优先 A sentence structure where the object or main topic is moved to the beginning of the sentence for emphasis.
